It's very very difficult to get cancer
when the mitochondria in your cells are
healthy because cancer is a
mitochondrial metabolic disorder. So you
have to abuse your mitochondria in some
populations of cells in some organ of
your body in order to cause that cell
that group of cell that cell or group of
cells to start growing in a disregulated
way. So if you keep your mitochondria
healthy you don't get chronic diseases
or cancer.
[music]
Hello and welcome to the healthy wealth
experience. I am your host Chris Hall
and today I am really excited to have a
guest with us today Dr. Thomas Seaff
freed and he is going to blow your doors
off today with what he knows about
cancer and the research of cancer and
the direction that it's headed versus
direction it should be headed. So
without further ado, Dr. Seaffrey, thank
you so much for being on the show.
>> Thank you Chris. Nice to be here today.
>> All right, so thank you so much. So, um,
obviously I know a little bit about you,
but tell us a little bit about yourself
and, you know, kind of how you got into
this subject matter.
>> Well, uh, I'm a professor here at Boston
College. I I teach general biology to,
uh, students that are not biology
majors, uh, which includes a lot of my
work on cancer as well. We integrate
cancer into a lot of the foundational
principles of biological
sciences, but I also teach an advanced
course in cancer metabolism. So uh those
two kind of keep me keep me busy. And
we've been working in this uh well maybe
40 years at least but not always on
areas of developing therapies. Most of
it was on basic research. what is the
biochemical changes that you find in
cancer. But before that and parallel
with that, I was also working on the
field of epilepsy at Yale University and
I continued it here at Boston College
and we were developing mapping genes and
developing therapies for epilepsy and
those therapies for epilepsy started to
merge into ma managing therapies for
cancer and the two projects were
parallel for many years and now most of
what I do now is mostly into the field
of cancer prevention and management.
>> Okay. And so now you have been been very
well reviewed. Uh you've been in 150
plus peer-reviewed publications. Is that
correct?
>> Well, we have over 200 now. That was
probably 10 years ago when that came
out. So we've been publishing quite a
bit. Uh we have some new papers that
will be coming out. One just came out
yesterday on the glutamine issue,
limitation of glutamine. and
preclinical. We do all of our work
preclinally
uh which uses the most accurate models
for the for the disorder both brain
cancer and general metastatic cancers. I
also work with many clinicians in
different different settings around the
world who want to introduce metabolic
therapy for their patients. So, so we're
working on several fronts. We're
starting a new society of metabolic
oncology which will be introducing
non-toxic
strate therapeutic strategies for
managing cancer and people. The
foundational concepts are developed here
at Boston College using these
pre-clinical systems so we can
troubleshoot a lot of the issues before
they go into the clinic and allow
clinicians to be more comfortable in in
doing what they do without fear that
they're going to harm their patients. So
your primary claim is that cancer is a
metabolic uh disease, not a genetic
disease. Can you kind of elaborate on
that for people who aren't familiar with
your work?
>> Yeah. Well, our work is based on the
shoulders of Otto Warberg, famous German
scientist from the last century who who
showed in the 90s with his data that
cancer cells ferment the sugar glucose
into lactic acid. And he said all cancer
cells have this common problem and it
and it resides in the mitochondrian of
the cell which is the organel that
provides the energy of the cell controls
the quiescent or differentiated state
determines when cells grow how long they
should grow how fast they should grow
and when they should stop growing. In
other words they would control cells to
start growing and stop growing. And
we've learned that over the years and
that organel is is deficient. Because
it's deficient, cells no longer respect
contact inhibition. They no longer
respect the environment. They grow in a
disregulated way, which essentially is
cancer. Cancer is disregulated cell
growth. And the regulation of the cell
growth resides in the organel called the
mitochondria. And when that organel
becomes damaged or deficient in in its
ability to produce energy, a variety of
different abnormalities can happen. The
cell the cell gradually drifts into an
unregulated state. And as long as it has
fuels to drive this energy, which is a
fermentation energy, very hard to kill.
So the origin of cancer is a disruption
of normal energy metabolism and a
replacement of this energy with ancient
fermentation pathways. These are
pathways that exist in all of our cells.
And they're heirlooms of hundreds of
millions of years ago before oxygen came
into the atmosphere. And these cancer
cells are simply falling back on these
ancient pathways. And as long as the
fuels driving those pathways are
present, they become very difficult to
kill. So you can, you know, poison and
irdiate people and chop them up and do
all this kind of stuff. But all you have
to do is really pull the plug on those
two fermentable fuels and you can pretty
much manage the disease in a much more
effective way. But because people think
it's a genetic disease, including the
National Cancer Institute and most top
medical schools and most pharmaceutical
companies, you constantly are producing
therapies and drugs that are incapable
of dropping the death rate. And and the
and the beat goes on.
>> And that's why we have over 1,700 people
a day dying from cancer in the United
States, which comes out to about 70
people per hour. And the beat goes on.
And you keep hearing about all these new
breakthroughs. The only major
breakthrough was the antismoking
campaign from the 1990s. This is another
thing when you hear, oh, you know, we're
making so much progress. No, you're not.
You stop smoking. That was the progress.
So, uh, it became socially unacceptable
to be smoking in the in in groups of
people. So, peer pressure gradually stop
people from smoking and that dropped the
death rate significantly. Wasn't any new
drugs. Um, and they're you hear on the
news they're saying, "Oh, we made so
much progress in the development of No,
you haven't. We have 1,700 people a day
dying. Tell me where the progress is.
>> Um, you know, pill, they don't know that
there's 1,700 people. 70 people an hour
are dying and they keep telling us we're
making all this progress and and well,
the we would have had a hell of a lot
more people dying if we didn't stop
smoking. So, uh, that's the big advance.
It was the anti-smoking campaign, which
is basically prevention. It wasn't any
new technology. And then you hear about
all this stuff that's just such
misinformation and such You
know, you keep hearing it on the news
every night. Oh, look at all the cancer.
Look at this drug. Look at that drug.
>> And and you know, we have 50% of the
people dying from the drugs that they're
treating the patients with. It's
tragedy. It's tragic. Tragic.
>> It is is incredible to me. I coach
football and um as a as a hobby and uh I
love coaching football and we had a
thing the other day where the kids were
kind of just talking about why they play
football and and it was a really cool
night but I couldn't believe how many of
the kids basically talked about a loved
one, a parent, a friend, a brother, a
sister that had died of cancer or had
been fighting cancer and it was like it
really truly it touches all of us. So,
so it and it is like, you know, we you
can't even talk to anybody without
someone saying, "Oh, yeah, so and so's
got cancer now." So, you had mentioned
uh the two fuels that feed cancer or
fuel cancer. Can you can you tell us
what those are?
>> Yeah. Well, one of them is the sugar
glucose.
>> Mhm. There's clear we we were the first
to show a direct relationship in our
pre-clinical studies on brain cancer
that there was the higher the sugar in
the blood the glucose let's put it this
way glucose which is if your table sugar
is is part fructose which makes it sweet
and the other part is glucose. So when
you eat table sugar it's broken down in
the stomach by sucraes and you get
glucose immediately enters your
bloodstream. Um and you know you know
diabetics can have very high blood sugar
levels. That's why they take metformin
and these other kinds of drugs. But the
the bottom line is what we found is that
in these in these mice with brain
cancer, the higher the blood sugar, the
faster the tumor grew. And then and if
you use various diet like water fasting
and diets and things like this, you
could lower blood sugar and the tumors
grew much much slower. Um and then
people started to make these same
findings in humans. the people with
glyopblastoomas or brain cancers, the
people that had high blood sugar
survived the least amount whereas those
that had lower blood sugars survived
longer. And then we saw the same thing
for breast cancer, colon cancer, lung
cancer. We went down right down the
list. Pancreatic, the higher your blood
sugar, the faster the tumor grows and
the faster you die. And people knew for
years that the other fuel, glutamine,
which is an amino acid that's very
abundant in the bloodstream, is there
and the tumor is just sucking down the
glucose and the glutamine. And those two
fuels are driving the disregulated
growth of these cells. You know, it's
really interesting. And then when you
lower your blood sugar, your body starts
mobilizing fat because you're not eating
anything. And the fat uh the fat
triglycerides go into the bloodstream
and they go to your liver and your liver
kind of chops these longchain fatty
acids into water small water soluble
molecules called ketone bodies and they
replace the sugar. So as the blood sugar
goes down the ketone bodies go up and
your brain and heart start transitioning
away from sugar to these ketone bodies.
So the nice thing about it is the tumor
cells can't use the fatty acids or
ketone bodies because the mitochondrian
is needed to burn those ketone bodies
into energy and they have a bad
mitochondria. So, so lowering blood
sugar and elevating ketones then places
the body in this new energized state
where the normal cells get healthier and
healthier and the tumor cells get weaker
and weaker. And then we come in with
very low doses of glutamine targeting
drugs because there's no diet that can
lower glutamine. It's just it's just
abundant in our system. So we can
strategically target the glutamine while
we put a choke hold on the glucose and
elevate the body over to ketones which
is the way we evolved as a species. Our
ancestors during the Paleolithic period
were always in a state of ketosis
because there weren't delicateessins and
doughnut shops on every corner. I mean
you had to kill the beast and eat the
meat. Uh and and and and you needed a
lot of energy to do that. And that's how
we evolved. Then these tumor cells,
they're they're expecting a nice sugary
meal every night and all of a sudden you
change their whole landscape and they up
and die and and and uh you can kill
gradually destroyed tumor while making
the rest of the body healthy. We see
people that have high blood pressure,
hypertension, diabetes and cancer. And
we see doing metabolic therapy uh we see
them getting rid of the cancer along
with the diabetes, high blood pressure,
hypertension and exercise. We throw in
the exercise which puts even more
pressure on the tumor especially when
the sugar is low and the ketones are
elevated. So you can gradually manage
this disease for all kinds pancreatic
they're all the same. Cancer is one s
common disease of energy metabolism. We
can manage all the and so people say I
don't believe you. Well, why don't you
read the damn literature? Why don't you
look at the experiments that we did? You
tell me where I made a mistake,
>> right? 200 publications, right?
>> Well, it's not all on that, but you
know, a good a good 75 or 100 are.
>> Yeah.
>> And and you tell me I want to know
somebody comment. Nobody's been able to
tell me where where we made a mistake.
And uh the science is rock solid. It's
on a granite base. Uh, and yet we're not
using any of this stuff that I just
mentioned in the clinics. Yes, sir.
>> There's no no clinical trial anywhere on
the planet where we're simultaneously
targeting glucose and glutamine while we
transition the body over to nutritional
ketosis. Nowhere. And yet that's the way
we're going to manage this disease
effectively everywhere. Is it? It's
amazing, isn't it?
>> Yeah. It's incredible. Remember, uh, Dr.
Jason Fun, this is probably almost like
a decade ago, was talking about
reversing type two diabetes. At the
time, you type two diabetes was a, you
know, like a a death sentence, if you
will. There was no way to reverse it.
And then he was like, "No, you can
absolutely reverse it. We just need to
start fasting and eat a ketogenic diet."
And I mean, here we are 10 years later
and people are still not fasting.
They're still not eating ketogenic diet.
And there's so many people that are
anti- ketogenic diet. It's so crazy.
Like, if you go to a restaurant and you
get a hamburger and French fries, nobody
cares. You know what I mean? But if you
get a hamburger and you say, "Do I want
the bun and I don't want the French
fries. I just want the hamburger." all
of a sudden like you're some sort of
weirdo.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, I go to the what
we like is ribeye steaks. You know, the
um I don't know anybody who doesn't like
a tomahawk ribeye. Well, maybe a vegan
or something like that, but you know,
you melt butter on top of it. Man, it's
unbelievable. And then you can have a
small stick of u asparagus or a small
little bit of broccoli or something on
the side. I don't consider that a
hardship in any sense of the
>> No. No, absolutely not. You know, we we
we got really good results in in our
Greek glyopblasto study using a
calorierestricted Mediterranean diet
which was salmon, olive oil, little
avocado, sardines, and this kind of
stuff. And these people were doing
really well. So when you say ke, it's
not so much. What we developed is the
glucose ketone index calculator here at
Boston College, which is going to
eventually become the tool, the standard
tool that everyone will be using to
determine whether or not they are in the
state of nutritional ketosis. So
>> what is that called again?
>> It's called the GKI, the glucose ketone
index, which is a ratio of glucose to
ketone bodies in your blood. And right
now the meters are basically a finger
prick meter like Keto Mojo or Precision
Extra or these kinds of things. You can
buy them on Amazon, but you know, people
don't like to prick their finger to get
the results you get are super accurate
because you're measuring right from the
blood. Uh a lot of uh people with
diabetes use these. Kids with epilepsy,
but now the companies are developing the
continuous glucose ketone monitors. So
you just put the patch on your arm and
we we're developing an app so you can
read it right off your arm, right on
your cell phone and you'll know any at
any moment of the day what what zone
you're in with respect to your
physiological health. And there's
different zones like the deep red zone
which puts you at risk for diabetes,
dementia, cancer, cardiovascular disease
and all these different diseases that we
are currently afflicted in our society.
chronic diseases. You can have a blood
sugar really high or a GKI ratio that's
really high and put you in these in
these. But if you want to prevent
chronic disease, you can get down into
the yellow zone. The orange zone is some
sort of transition zone. But if you have
a chronic disease like type 2 diabetes,
like Jason Fong was telling you, or
cancer, or dementia, you can get down
into these low green zones, which are
low GKI values where you're taking in
very little carbohydrate diets. a lot of
a lot of carnivore diets, ex a lot of
exercise, you can stay in these low
green zones and knock the hell out of
these chronic diseases, you can either
prevent them or you can manage them
quite effectively. And then we bring in,
you know, standards of care that are
currently used. And when you want to
manage cancer, you can still use
poisonous chemicals. The issue is you
can use much less of them.
>> So their toxicity becomes much less
important. Even the imunotherapies will
work best when the patients are in these
these zones. Right now the field is
throwing all this poisonous stuff at
people before they get into these
nutritional ketoic zones. But you see
the problem is right now no one has a
tool to tell you where what zone you're
in at any given time. So people say,
"I've eaten this crap ketogenic diet.
It's terrible." Well, what zone are you
in? I have no clue. Well, you you might
be eating a crap diet and you're not
even in the zone that you think you're
in. So without a tool, an accurate tool,
there's so much speculation and and
people sometimes don't even know where
where they are at any given time. So
we're going to change all that.
>> How far out are we on this tool? This
sounds amazing.
>> It's under development right now.
>> Okay.
>> So we're we're integrating all of the
different parts of this as we speak. But
we published the articles on it. We
showed how the GKI can be used and we
have published articles showing people
in low gleak GKIs with the finger prick
method right now. But it's not it's we
haven't brought the AI to bear on this
yet. Artificial intelligence will make a
lot of these tools a lot more easy for
people to use and that's all in the
works.
>> I love that. That's so cool. I I think I
had talked to Dr. chaffy, you know, and
he's a very carnivore kind of guy. And
uh, you know, it just like it feels like
everything's sort of like swinging this
way, but it also feels like the the
medical establishment is very slow to
react, if not protective of the quote
unquote old ways. Can you speak to that
a little bit? Like why is the medical
industry so against, you know, a
ketogenic diet and, you know, uh,
blocking glutamine? I think um I think
the term diet has always been a turnoff
for established medicine because it's so
variable. I mean it's so vague. What do
you mean a diet? What you eat may not be
the same as the other guy. And even if
two people eat the same thing, the
results may not be the same
physiologically. So diets have always
been ambiguous at best. The concept is
nutritional ketosis
>> which can be a quantitative. We can
measure we we can measure that. And what
you would need to get into nutritional
ketosis might not be the same as what I
would need or somebody else. It would
depend on your age, your gender, your
religion, your sex. All of these
different things would have to be
incorporated to know what a one person
would need to do to get into nutritional
ketosis. So that takes the term diet out
of it because it's a combination of of
yes, what you eat, but it's it's not a
standard like, oh, I'm eating a
ketogenic diet. you know, some guy can
get in there eating a carnivore or or
fish only or whatever. In fact,
everybody should start experimenting
with their own body to see what they
what they could do to get into
nutritional ketosis and then work it out
for themselves so we can take the
ambiguity out of a lot a lot of this.
So, as far as the reaction to what we're
doing, you know, it's the science is
solid. So, you can't really attack that.
So, it has to be something other than
attacking the science. Oh, it's hard to
do. Well, not if it's done right. Oh,
this well a lot of you want to live. I
mean, it's up to you. You're in you're
in charge of your own destiny. If you if
you don't want to live on the planet,
then that's your that's your
prerogative. But but but the problem is
people need to have the directions and
the tools to do this. And right now,
you're not getting any help from the the
traditional medical establishment. When
you go to the cancer clinics like we
have Dana Farber here and MD Anderson in
Texas and and you have them Sloan
Ketering and Moffetts you know the all
these Fred Hutch you can go around the
country and find all these cancer
centers. It's shocking to know that most
of the oncologists never heard of the
fact that glucose drives the
disregulated growth of the tumor. Right?
>> Can you believe it? The very people that
are supposed to be there to help you
have no clue, not all of them, many of
them have no clue about the biology or
biochemistry of the disease they're
trying to manage. And that's why we have
1,700 people a day dying. The very
people that are supposed to know don't
know. And now the the people in the in
the world are hearing about metabolic
therapy and they go into the clinics and
they get slapped down. They say, "Well,
there's no evidence to support this." I
said, "Well, did you read the paper?"
"No, we haven't read the paper." Well,
how can you say there's [laughter] no
evidence when you don't even read the
literature to know there is evidence,
you know? And of course, the drug
companies aren't really enthusiastic
about it. They they prefer to push these
very highly expensive drugs that have
just as much probability of killing you
as as helping you. But they don't hide
it. The drug companies are very open.
When you hear them advertised at night
on TV, Opivvo, Katruda, this thing, that
thing, they spend more time telling you
how the drug is going to kill you than
how it's going to help you,
>> right? You're not hiding. It's
absolutely telling you this drug can
kill you. And yet people rather go to
the clinics and they get the drug that
could kill them and they don't they
never hear about metabolic therapy. We
can make those drugs less likely to kill
you if you're in nutritional ketosis.
Well, I I you see like I feel like, you
know, this knowledge is so, you know,
obvious, right? You know what I mean?
Everything needs a fuel, right? So, like
when you say like I I don't know much
about targeting glutamine, but I can
tell you like pretty easy how to get rid
of sugar in your diet. And maybe we can
talk about glutamine in a second, but I
think it's very inexpensive to do that,
right? To cut things out of your diet is
extremely inexpensive to do. I think
that one thing that I always wonder
about is like, you know, for me, I I
know this information. I've heard it
before. I'm super excited to get more
information from you about it from like,
you know, a true expert, not like, you
know, like some bro science thing that
you see on the internet. But I guess
what happens is like, you know, for me,
you know, like let's say I I talk to
somebody tomorrow and it's somebody I
went to high school with and they're
like, "Hey, I got cancer." And I'm like,
"Oh my gosh, I'm so sorry." Like it's
such a leap to go from, you know, like,
"Oh, you've got cancer." Well, did you
stop eating sugar and have you targeted
your glutamine? Like it's like you feel
like, you know, do I have the right to
say these kinds of things? So, what
would you give advice to people to help
spread the word about this without
feeling like they're I mean, again,
we're stepping on the doctor's toes, no
doubt, because the doctor's already got
them probably on chemo. You know what I
mean?
>> Yeah. Well, we're seeing the best
results. Again, I'm not a physician, so
I can't be telling anybody what to do or
what not to do because I'm not licensed
to do that. But what I am licensed to do
is spread knowledge based on the
publications that that we that we have
and talking to my colleagues that are
working in clinics using the new
knowledge that that we have. And
generally in many cases when a person is
first diagnoses diagnosed with cancer,
regardless of what type of cancer it is,
they're generally some of them are
surprised. Some of them knew there was a
problem, but they didn't know it was as
bad as it's been made out to be. When we
get those folks up front and we put them
on metabolic therapy right away, which
is like a zero carb diet for 10 days,
and monitor their glucose ketone index
as they go through, their blood work is
often screwed up at the beginning.
They're at a at a metabolic homeostasis
in many different ways. And you can look
at the cholesterol and the
triglycerides, the micro and the macro
metabolites that you see. these whole
there's a lot of imbalances already
within the bloodstream which is
indicative of a of a state of met
metabolic derangement. So we try to
bring everything back onto a more normal
thing a normal pla platform and you can
do that by uh but water only fasting is
a when you try to do it up front.
I mean it's don't tell me man people oh
yeah let's go out and stop eating no no
no no no it doesn't but after this after
the third day you're you look at your
pets in a different way you know this is
this is very stressful on the body but
when you when you cut down carbs you
start easing your body into this new
condition and then jumping the last step
into water only fasting while you're
taking medications that are specifically
targeting glucose and glutamine uh the
pro it's not so much of a problem and
you start to see shrinkage of the tumor,
you start to feel a hell of a lot
better. You start to see all these
different changes. This is very
dramatically different than what we're
doing to the cancer patients today when
you start pouring chemo into them or
surgically mutilate them. We're we're
not we're not against surgical
mutilation, but we like to do it in in a
more restricted and refined way. If you
can take a tumor in someone's colon or
on a breast or even in a lung anywhere
even in the brain and you shrink it down
you remove the blood vessels and you
takes this angry inflamed growth and
make it much less angry and inflamed
more indolent then the surgeon can come
in and feel with greater degree of
confidence that I might have even cured
this guy because I I I'm not worried
about bits and pieces of the tumor that
may have broken off or I didn't get it
all or one of these kinds of things.
Right? When you put patients on
metabolic therapy, the damn tumor
shrinks and the margins become sharp and
surgeons look and say, "Oh my god, I can
pluck this thing out. It's like a wart,
you know." But when you're dealing with
an angry beast up front, a lot of times
you don't cure the patient. You spread
it around
>> and then you come in with the with the
saturating doses of chemo or whatever
else they're going to give you with the
hope you're going to kill all the tumor
cells, but at the same time, you're
killing your normal cells. Your hair is
falling out, your gums are bleeding,
your microbiome, gut is blown to crap. I
mean, everything is like, what are you
doing to this poor? You're using
medieval knowledge bases to get rid of
something that's not that not as
complicated as people made it out to be.
I get frustrated because when we know
and understand the biology and
biochemistry of what's making a cell
grow in a disregulated way, knowing that
there is only two fuels driving this
disregulated growth and you're not
targeting the two fuels that are driving
the growth and you're doing all these
other crazy expensive stuff that puts
patients at risk for not only spreading
the tumor but for actually killing them,
>> right?
>> You know, this makes no sense at all.
But because I say this based on my years
of knowledge and looking at the way
we've been managing cancer here and
publishing paper after paper after paper
and having people in the clinics not
reading the papers and you say why you
continue to do this crazy stuff and it's
mostly tragic and the little kids with
brain tumors they just surgically
mutilate these kids. They radiate and
poison them and even if they can stop
the cancer the poor kids are brain
damaged from all the stuff they've done.
I mean this is tragic of the the highest
level and yet we're allow we continue to
allow this and then they say you have to
check your genetic profile. The genes
have very little if anything to do with
cancer. So we've opened up a whole new
avenue of studying gene mutations in
cancer that are largely downstream and
irrelevant. The cancer cell can't grow
without glucose and glutamine. Why are
you worried about the genes? You kill
the tumor cell, you don't have to worry
about what kind of gene mutations they
had in there, right? So, so that so you
know they just awarded the Nobel Prize
today for economics. It's called
disruptive technology or creative
destruction where new new sciences, new
issues come along and eliminate old new
knowledge eliminates old ways of doing
things. Nothing could be more central
than the metabolic therapy for cancer.
It will eventually become the standard
of care because it works and it doesn't
hurt. You actually get better and
healthier when you do it. It's just a
matter of time for people to realize
that this will be the future. It works
because I've seen it and we just have to
have it introduced into the major
clinics and because people are going to
want it once they realize and we publish
more and more papers of people that have
brain cancer and and pancreatic cancer
that are living five and six years when
they used to live like nine or 10
months. People are going to say, "I want
that. What is he doing? Can you get let
me do I want to do what that other guy
did." And they say, "Well, there's no
evidence to support that." And the
people in medical, the poor physicians
in medical school aren't trained.
They're trained to know that cancer is a
genetic disease. The National Cancer
Institute says cancer is a genetic
disease. NIH awards all these big
research grants to people hunting for
genes that are largely irrelevant. So we
get 1,700 people a day dying from stuff
that what these people don't have to be
dying. So the whole industry needs to be
turned upside down because it's not
working.
>> Yeah. Yeah. H how do how do uh people
target glutamine? How do you do that?
Because like you said, it's very
prolific in our bloodstream already,
right?
>> Yeah. It's already it's already at a
level that can satiate the desire for
any tumor cell to to have it. So, we're
already it's the most abundant amino
acid in our body. So, we have to use
drugs, but the drugs have to be done in
a strategic way. That's why we developed
the press pulse therapeutic strategy. It
was based on on evolutionary biology. It
appears Arenss and West, these two
paleobiologists,
wanted to figure out what led to mass
extinctions of organisms on the planet
over the over the over the history of
our earth. There had been these mass
extinctions of organisms millennia ago.
And and they always found that it was
two things. You had a chronic stress on
the population and then you had this
unlikely like a meteor strike or some
series of volcanoes or whatever and it
would just wipe out everything. So I
took that concept and said, "Okay, well,
we can stress glucose down and we can we
can weaken the tumor cell by taking away
one of the two fuels." And then because
glutamine is so essential for our health
that our gut needs glutamine, our immune
cells need glutamine, you know,
cells, we we need that molecule. We
can't go in there like a bull in a china
shop and take away all your glutamine
because if you kill cancer cells, you
won't have anybody picking up the
corpses. You got to have your immune
cells coming in to pick up the dead
cancer cells. So, you have to pulse. You
get you give a a dose of a glutamine
targeting drug for a short period of
time just while you got a choke hold on
the glucose uh with the diet with the
nutritional ketoic state and then you
come in with a with a pulse of a
glutamine targeting drug and now we find
is some of these parasite medications
are working uh well. We we got we have
data that Mbendendazol which is and and
fenbendazol these different different
drugs they target this metabolic pathway
the glutamine they target the glutamine
pathway in the cancer cell the same way
the parasite and the cancer cell require
a similar pathway to survive. So the
parasite medication kills the parasite
but it also will kill the cancer cell.
So so uh and it's elchipo right?
>> So nobody wants that. Oh, no. You can't
have that. So, uh, we have to figure a
way. So, we Scarelli the drugs. You
know, you remember Martin Scarelli, the
most hated man in America. There was a
big Oh, yeah. It's You can look look
back. He took the EpiPens and he he made
they jacked the price up several times
to like $800 a pen. Yeah.
>> That guy, you know, he he appeared on
Congress and told them they were all
fools at one of the congressional
hearings and he did it because he could.
Well, the pharmaceutical companies do
the same thing. They just don't boast
about it. So, so they take Mendazol,
which used to be 50 cents a tablet, now
you know it works on cancer. Let's make
it $300 a tablet. So, yeah, they do the
same despicable immoral. I call that
immoral. There's an immorality here that
seems to be in short supply in some of
the in some of these organizations. But,
you know, we can do that. And now we're
realizing more and more some of these
parasite medications. We have a paper
that's out in bioarchchives and we have
another one under review where we
combine. We know this drug six
deoxyorucine is very powerful glutamine
targeting drug but if you don't use it
right it can be toxic. It's like
anything. You just got to know how to
use the tools that you have. And once
you know the strategies and the concepts
you can build a very very effective
cancer management system by your
knowledge of what the tumor needs and
your knowledge of how to use drugs and
procedures in the right order and
sequence. So this is not you know this
is the revolution. It's a paradigm
change and uh problem is nobody seems to
be trained to know about this. You know,
they think it's a genetic disease. Oh,
we got to target this mutation or that
mutation. This is nonsense. It's not a
genetic disease. It's a metabolic
disease, right?
>> And once you know that, the outcome is
going to be so much better.
>> Yeah. I feel like medicine is like
diagnosis leads to prognosis, right? So,
if the diagnosis is misdiagnosed because
they think it's a genetic disease, then
the of course the prognosis isn't
matching up to, you know what I mean?
Well, they look at it the ultimate way
is you look at it under the microscope
in a biopsy and that's generally what
everybody falls back on like, oh, you
have a stage one, you have a stage two,
stage three, stage four. They've been
using this number system, you know, for
for over a hundred years now. I don't
know. So, you got a stage one now. They
have stage zeros, you know, where they
think there might be something there and
maybe there is, maybe there isn't. But
anyway, we'll remove breasts and we'll
poison them, do all this kind of crazy
stuff to some people. And then, oh, you
got a stage four. Well, what do you what
do you mean a state? What does that
mean? So, you look at you take the
tissue out of the person's body and you
look at it under a microscope and you
can see how many motic figures you see
and how crowded the cells are and you
know and this kind of thing and the
pathologist makes a decision that's then
passed on to the surgeon or or the
oncologist to tell the patient you got
this kind of a disease stage three stage
four depending on how many how crowded
the cells look and how many motic
figures. The pro the problem which we've
been doing for decades is we take a a
biopsy of this thing which is a section
of the tumor and then you give it to the
pathologist and he can make the decision
relatively quickly. But you you stick a
you stick the beast with something that
can actually make it worse um and and
lead to the spread. I have dozens of
articles showing how biopsies from
breast, colon, liver, lung can spread
the tumor through your body
>> creating medicine. Why I I say don't do
anything. Let don't stick don't don't
poke the bear. Shrink it down. Make it
weak and then come in and take the whole
thing out. What are you sticking it for?
Just take the whole thing out after you
after you shrunk it down with metabolic
therapy. And then you know and then what
they say which has been done, oh this is
not an aggress and they look at it and
they go, "Oh, this this is not an
aggressive tumor." Yeah, because we
shrunk the hell out of it. We already
beat it down. I mean, if you stabbed it
at the beginning, you'd say, "Oh, this
is going to kill you." You know, but
it's everything you got to know about
the biology. You don't poke the bear,
just just take the food away from him.
He becomes very docel and you can cut it
out and then you can follow it up with
some uh non-invasive imaging. We've got
all these non-invasive imaging, CAT
scan, PET scan, MRIs. You can you can
start looking at things before you have
to poke it. And if it goes away, I mean,
why would you want to poke it in the
first place?
>> Right?
>> So, we have all these things available.
We're just not using them in the cor in
the correct order, in the correct way.
But and once the knowledge comes out,
people will start realizing what I am
saying and start doing things the right
way.
>> Nice. And now have you developed
protocols? Do you guys have you know do
you guys have protocols that people like
if a doctor's listening right now and
they're like I want to learn more about
this like that they could they could get
a protocol from you?
>> Yes. Well, we we've just published a big
paper in biomedical central on
glyopblasto and do Dr. Thomas Durai who
works with me here in the lab. He's an
MD PhD and we put on over 20 scientists
and physicians, nutritionists,
dietician, all these people were on this
paper together with us and this paper
starts the new society for metabolic
oncology. It's open access so people can
get it. It's a very comprehensive
treatment protocol for glyobblasto which
is a deadly brain cancer. The cancer
that that killed John McCain and
President Biden's son and Senator
Kennedy and many others died from this
type of the same kind of tumor. So,
we've developed a treatment protocol for
this tumor. But to be honest with you,
all the cancers that we have looked at,
whether it's a lung, a colon, a breast,
a bladder, they all have the same
problem. They need glucose and glutamine
and can't burn ketones or fatty acids.
So, this protocol, we we did it for
glyobblasto because they've got nothing.
We haven't made an advance in managing
glyopblasto in 100 years. Can you
believe it? Um and and uh yeah, it's
it's it's a tra tragedy of the highest
level mainly because they irdiate the
brain of these poor folks freeing up
massive amounts of glucose and glutamine
in the micro environment leading to the
rapid demise of the patients. So, so
even the very treatments that we're
doing are facilitating the rapid demise
of the patients. And then when you bring
it to their attention, they get angry
rather than saying, "Oh geez, thank you
so much for that valuable information."
They get pissed off at you. So I said,
"What's going on here? Aren't you
interested in the patients? You've been
doing the same stupid thing for all
these years and nothing's changing and
you want to come along with something
that could work and you get angry about
it. I mean, give me a break. So, but
this is the crazy stuff. But the
protocol for glyopblasto could be used
for lung, colon, breast. Again, it's the
strategy of pulling the plug on the
fermentable fuels. You move in a little
exercise, you measure your GKI and then
you bring from a very dangerous
situation to a less dangerous, more
manageable situation where you can sit
back and think about the best new
strategies that we can apply to the
patient and the problem and gradually
degrade the tumor slowly. We're not ever
claiming that we can cure cancer. I hate
the word cure. Such an arrogant term.
We like to think of managing cancer
effectively allowing the patient to live
with a high quality of life whether or
not the tumor goes away because we have
this one guy Pablo Kelly who just passed
away last year. He lived 10 years with a
glyopblasto. He got married and had had
three children. He was never cured but
his tumor was put into an indolent
state. Um and you know glyopblasto
patients if you can get 15 months out of
somebody rather than 122 months. I mean
he died from a cerebral hemorrhage
following his last debulking surgery. So
he never died from the tumor. He just
died from the fourth surgical debulking.
So
>> and by debulking you mean they were just
doing a removal of tissue?
>> Yeah. So he was on metabolic therapy and
the tumor continued to grow and they
would cut it out and it would come back
slow and after several more years they'd
cut it out again. It was really funny
because at the beginning when he was
first diagnosed, they said he had an
inoperable tumor and if he didn't take a
large dose of chemo and radiation, he
would be dead in 12 months. And he
didn't take any radiation or chemo. And
then he just did metabolic therapy. And
after two and a half years, the tumor
that was supposedly inoperable became
operable
>> because it wasn't it was metastatic. It
wasn't attached to everything because
you guys had shrunk it down and defined
border.
>> Well, we shrunk it down, but we still
never got rid of it completely. So, we
never cured Pablo, but he lived 10
years. I mean, and he had and he didn't
die from the tumor, so we don't know how
long. And we talked to him a week before
he went in for the surgery. He was
laughing and we having a good time. I
was so sad when he died. He was he came
out of surgery doing fine. Thumbs up. I
get a picture talking up a storm. And
then that night he had a cerebral
hemorrhage and passed away. But but but
the issue here, he was managed. And so I
like to call cancer, we can manage
cancer, effectively manage cancer. Are
you so fortunate to be cured? I don't
know. You know, if you get cancer at 35
years old and you die at 98 years old
from a heart attack and the cancer never
came back, well, you can say he was
cured of cancer. That's for sure. But
but who knows? We never like to say the
term cure because after 10 years it
could come back. And and and we don't
know if it would come back as the
original type or come back from one of
the toxic treatments that the patient
received. It's not clear. So we like to
say successful management. we are
capable of successfully managing cancer
make changing its diagnosis from
extremely aggressive to indolent. So
that I am sure of. I never can say
whether you get cured or not. We don't
know nor can the field tell you you're
going to be cured. So um the standards
of care do not guarantee cure in any of
these situations either. So but we're
more I think we can do a hell of a lot
better job than what's currently being
done.
>> Yeah. No, I think that's I mean that
sounds amazing. You know, just
management alone, you know what I mean?
10 years on a glyobblasto. That's like
unheard of, right?
>> Uh well, it's not unheard of, but it
happens extremely rarely. It's so
uncommon,
>> you know, and and now we're getting in
in the Greek study where they did have
radiation to the brain. Uh because it's
almost like you're they got a lock a
lockold on that standard of care. Even
in Egypt, we couldn't get them to not
irdiate the brain. But my colleagues in
Greek, they still irdiated the brain.
But they had to out of the out of the 18
people, six went on the metabolic
therapy, the calorierestricted
Mediterranean, and 12 didn't for various
reasons. And of the six that did
metabolic therapy, four survived three
years or longer, whereas only one out of
the 12 uh survived three years or
longer. So clearly huge difference. And
we didn't irdiate the brains on these
people. These guys, we would even have
better results. So we know what to do
and how to do it. It's just that nobody
is doing it. And they're they're
touching they're putting their big toe
into the water slowly on this whole
thing.
>> Now, how did Pablo hear about this
protocol and what you guys were doing?
>> Yeah. Well, he he talked to Andrew
Scarboro, another guy from England,
who's still alive and he had a stage
three astroytoma
15 years ago and he's still going
strong. Uh, so Pablo Kelly was from
Devon, England, and Andrew was from
London and Pablo just heard about it.
Pablo emailed me right after his
diagnosis and said, "I hear you got some
sort of a diet thing." And at that time,
we didn't know much how to We didn't
know how to target gluten. He never he
never took a glutamine targeting drug.
Can you believe it? He lived
>> So all that time and no glutamine
targeting.
>> No, just on the metabolic therapy.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And he he learned a lot
about how to do this. Now, Andrew
Scarboro has been following his glucose
ketone index for all these years. And
now he even knows without even measuring
anymore. He knows what what state his
body is in just for the fact that he's
been doing it for so long. And he's
writing a couple of papers. So So the
word of mouth gets out and people people
just want to say, "Can I try it?" And
the idea is they're living longer. Not
everybody, but the majority of people
who do it right. And if they follow our
new big treatment protocol, the
probability of them surviving longer is
much greater than it would be if they
didn't follow the protocol.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So now are there any clinics
that have sort of just taken this on as
like you know like is there like you
know it seems like when you hear about
cancer someone's like oh yeah my friend
flew to France and he was there for 4
weeks and he doesn't have cancer anymore
and so are there any clinics that have
like just taken this and said this is
going to be what we're going to do from
here on out.
>> Well it also no matter what country
you're in there they're that they got
that strangulation hold on you for what
you're supposed to do. It's I've never
seen anything so pervasive about poison
and radiation that they do everywhere
almost the same. But Istanbul, Turkey,
we're starting some clinics over there
where they're getting really really good
results. And the key thing is we have to
publish these. You see what I I publish
things. A lot of clinicians don't know
how to do this. They say, "Oh, I got
spectacular results. You can't believe
this patient. He should have been dead.
He's out now swimming in the
Mediterranean. He's doing this." Well,
that's all anecdotal show. Give me the
give me the data. Show me what you did.
Let me see the blood work. Let me let me
see the sizes. That's what we did with
Pablo. We published all this stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> And and let the clinicians see the
evidence for themselves what we're doing
here. And uh in in Istanbul now uh
they're using our metabolic therapy and
they're getting spectacular results with
pancreatic cancer. Many of these folks
are making five years and you know
advanced pancreatic cancer is usually a
death sentence. We're getting good
results and they want to work with me to
publish the papers. So I said yeah well
colle you gota you have to collect the
data on these people the way we collect
the data on our pre-clinical studies we
have timelines we have blood measures we
have biopsy we not biopsy we have well
in in the pre-clinical we can certainly
do do all this stuff but we have we have
solid evidence for success and you have
to present the hard most evidence to
show to make the most um uh um
disbelieving clinician a believer
because He says, "Well, you didn't do
that. You didn't do this. You didn't
follow that. You didn't follow this." We
want to follow everything. All the im
imaging, the PET scan, the MRIs, the CAT
scans, the blood work, the size of the
tumor, how the patient feels, everything
about this condition to prove beyond a
doubt that this guy did in fact have a
terminal cancer and he's still alive.
So, um, and I want to say terminal
cancers should no longer be considered
terminal when treated with metabolic
therapy. We don't know what terminal
means. We're all terminal to some
extent. I mean,
>> right. I mean,
>> if you're living, you're dying.
>> Yeah. You're supposed to be dead, but
you're alive. What does that mean? So,
so, but anyway, we're we're getting more
and more and I'm publishing these
papers. It's not easy to publish a human
report because there's so many
variables. The guy decided to go out and
have a party one night. Well, man, our
mice in the in the cages don't do that,
you know. So my one of my colleagues
said if we could take the cancer
patients and put them in the same kind
of cages that our mice are in, we'd have
these cavs as cancer manage very
quickly.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> But you can't do that. You can't do
that. So but anyway, we're going to work
with these people in Istanbul and some
of the other countries. In India, we've
got a big group in India that are very
excited. And Brazil, we got another
group. And in China, we're starting to
get people all over the uh the world
that are starting to realize that the
science is solid. Why are we not doing
anything about this?
>> Right. Right. So, you know, one of the
reasons I started this podcast and the
reason it's called the healthy wealth
experience is because as a financial
adviser, I can tell you like if you're
not feeling well, if you're if you have
type 2 diabetes or you have you have
cancer, you have these things kind of
going on. It really doesn't matter how
much money you have. Like you you if
you're not feeling well, the only thing
you want to do is feel better. What are
some of the things that people could do
to reduce their risk of developing those
cancerous cells now knowing what you
know? Well, that's part of our new paper
that's under review for for chronic
diseases which includes cancer. If you
you can't it's very very difficult to
get cancer when the mitochondria in your
cells are healthy because cancer is a
mitochondrial metabolic disorder. So you
have to abuse your mitochondria in some
populations of cells in some organ of
your body in order to cause that cell
that group of cell that cell or group of
cells to start growing in a disregulated
way. So if the mitochondria are healthy,
you'll and this has been seen in animals
in the wild, humans according living
according to their traditional ways
where cancer is extremely rare. These
people are always in a kind of a state
of some semi-nutritional ketosis which
makes the mitochondria super healthy
when you're burning ketones. Uh very
unlikely that you're going to disrupt
oxidative phosphorilation. when we
develop the when the when the GKI comes
out uh in this new format uh people will
know that if you keep a GKI below 20
your probability of of getting cancer is
going to be remote because you're
keeping your mitochondria healthy and
you'll have a quantitative measure to
know that right now we don't know that
and if you have your in a very yellow
good orange green zone and you go out
you binge at a party and whatever you
you'll see go up deep into the red but
then you can take action right away to
move out of that zone and back into the
the healthy zones which will obviously
prevent type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular
disease, cancer, dementia, all the
chronic diseases because they're all
based in one way or another on
mitochondrial dysfunction. So if you
keep your mitochondria healthy, you
don't get chronic diseases or cancer. So
but right now we're living we're living
in an environment that puts us at risk
for all of these chronic diseases. We
have an obesity epidemic. We have a lack
of exercise. We're eating buttloads of
highly processed carbohydrates. We're
emotionally stressed out to the max.
We're locked into these computers and
cell phones. And you're doing everything
possible to to damage your mitochondria
health. And people need to know that.
And then there's no longer a mystery. I
I can't tell you. I I mean, I'm seeing
it because I get thousands and thousands
of emails from these poor people. Cancer
in young people used to be mostly old
folks. Now you're getting people in
their late 20s and 30s that are getting
colon cancer and all this kind of stuff.
I said, "What's going on? I mean, we're
saturating our environment with all the
crap that's putting our mitochondria at
risk and we're not doing anything about
it."
>> Well, along those same lines, if you
look at childhood obesity, how high it
is now,
>> you know, uh that is the canary in the
coal mine.
>> Yeah.
>> If a child is morbidly obese, he's on
his way he or she is on his way to
>> mitochondrial dysfunction.
>> Yeah. It's and it's terrible to say.
It's kind of like a a parental neglect
to put your child at risk for chronic
disease when he's so young. Um, and they
don't know. That's the problem. The
parents themselves lack knowledge about
the ser the gravity of what they're
looking at. You know, I mean, because
they're morbidly obese, the child should
be morbidly obese. Um, you know, this is
but they have to wake up because what it
does, it's stressing our health care
system to the max. Uh, you know, most of
the money in the health care is going to
manage chronic diseases. You know, and
RFK Jr., here. He comes out and says,
"Oh, we're going to do something about
chronic diseases. What are you going to
take a die out of a Froot Loop? Uh, give
me a break." You know, um, and he's all
digging holes with uh vaccines and
autism by Tyl. I mean, this is nonsense
stuff, you know. Uh, you we have the
strategy to manage chronic diseases and
these guys are fumbling around with
things that are are not as critical as
cancer and and diabetes and these other
things,
>> heart disease. Don't ask me what's going
on down at what when they say cancer is
a genetic disease on their website. I
know they don't know their ass from a
hole in the ground.
>> Oh yeah.
Yeah. I definitely, you know, after
hearing this, it makes me, you know,
want to advocate for it even more and
get that in, you know, knowledge out to
people like what can people do to sort
of push the narrative? Obviously, I have
the show and that's way, you know, for
me to push it out
>> is to get it out to the, you know, all
the social media channels and things
like that. But like, are there are there
things that we can do as a community
that could kind of get these because
again, like I feel like a lot of people
don't want to question a doctor
>> when when the doctors are just using the
best information that they have, which
means we want to give them better
information.
>> Yeah, I know. It's such a hard thing.
And I I I can tell you how many people
get slapped down when they go they get
all excited hearing what I say and then
they go into the oncologist and they get
slapped down or the or that we don't
want you as a patient anymore with those
kinds of questions. And it's so hard.
It's so it's so debilitating to hear
that oh eat whatever you want. Glucose
has nothing to do with anything. I mean
it's like oh man it's so tragic. And I I
feel bad for everybody. I feel bad for
the the lack of knowledge on the person
who's supposed to be treating you. And I
feel bad for the lack of knowledge on
the patient who's suffering with the
disease. And it's just such a such an
unnecess an unnecessary situation. But
but the the the the firewalls and the
stumbling the barriers to moving this
forward are so are so tall and so
numerous. It's just I think what you do
and what all these other podcast guys do
are are what you can do. You put the
word your word out there. And and the
interesting thing is that all of the
research that we do here is supported by
philanthropy and private foundations. We
don't get money from the government
because when when I write grants, they
always ask me what gene is involved and
there's no gene involved, man. It's it's
it's a metabolic problem. And they're
always asking you, "Oh, but you got to
detail the smallest amount of minutiae
mechanism." I said, "We have a way to
stop the death, the slaughter, and
you're worrying about a mechanism that
may have no relevance to the problem,
but that's the way scientists work." And
in some cases that's absolutely
essential, but we have a critical
situation here. People are dying by the
thousands and it's unnecessary. And and
the more I publish my my pre-clinical
studies and the more we investigate
synergies between diets and specific
non-toxic drugs or learning how to take
a previously toxic drug and make it
non-toxic because now you have a better
way of knowing how to use the tool. This
is going to advance the field and and
drop death rates. There's no question
about it.
>> Right.
>> So, we have Travis Kristofferson's
Foundation for Cancer Metabolic Therapy
supports our work. And people say, "I I
just want to support you. I don't care
if I make any money on it. I just think
I just think what you're doing is
important." And it is. And that's the
way we we keep publishing the papers in
top peer-reviewed journals. And
eventually, it's going to a tipping
point will come and a paradigm shift
will happen. It's just that it's not
there yet.
>> Yeah. No, that's it's exciting though.
It's exciting to think that it could be
right around the corner. Um, and then
again, as a as a financial adviser, I'll
tell you if you're listening, um, and
you've got your beneficiary set up for
your trust, uh, why not name these guys
for a portion of your trust to help with
the research? Why not further research
where we know it's where we know it's
doing?
>> Yeah, we have we have people that have
given some parts of their estates to
Boston College
>> to support our cancer research here
through the directly through the
university. And then we we have the
private foundations. I get guys who say,
"I have pancreatic cancer. You know,
here's $100,000. Can you help me?" But
it has to go through it has to go
through the university. I can't accept
any money personally from anybody. But
they're anxious because they know what
we have can keep them alive. And the
bottom line is how do you perfect this?
>> Well, I think so.
>> And I think you mentioned like the NIH
is really not going to help with this
because or the American Cancer Society
is going to help with it because they're
all they're basically I don't I don't
know. I want to be real careful how I
say this. They're directly influenced
and sometimes monetarily influenced by
the by big pharma. So, and if the way to
cure cancer is not to take a $16,000 a
dose drug, then they would have no
interest in that.
>> Yeah. Well, that's true to some extent.
And it it happened in 1984 actually when
progress towards managing cancer was
stalling. And in 1984 at the NIH they
made a decision to bring in the
pharmaceutical companies into the NIH
and academic academic cancer labs to
kind of uh expedite the the the race to
the to the solution which has now led to
us a even more disastrous situation
because we've replaced outcomes with
profitability. So revenue generation
becomes the most important thing rather
than patient outcome and raising raising
money for cancer like this is breast
cancer awareness month. So you see p
pink pink ribbons everywhere and people
run they use the good nature of people
and they use them as mules to raise
money for these organizations with no
accountability where the money goes.
Raising money has become an end in
itself rather than a means to helping
cancer patients. And when you look at
the advisory board of a lot of these
organizations, they've all published
papers saying cancer is a genetic
disease or in one way or the other. So
you're really throwing good money after
bad. It's not helping anything. The
people who get help most are those that
are running and swimming and biking for
the organizations. They get healthier
doing that.
>> Yeah.
>> But once you raise the money for
whatever they're doing with it, what we
do is get more dead cancer patients. So
clearly something a whole system needs
to be re-evaluated. It's broken. It's
broken in from top to bottom. So, if
someone's I want to be respectful of
your time. We've been talking for about
an hour now and I could probably do this
for another six hours. This is just so
fascinating to me. But I guess what I
would say is like what could someone
listening to this, what could they start
today, let's say they don't have cancer,
they just want to be better off and they
want to lower risk of cancer. What's
something they could do today to to
lower their risk and say, "Hey, from
here on out, I'm never going to do this
or I'm always going to do this or I'm
going to try to like be better at
>> Yeah. You know, it's it's it's hard. I
mean, I know what we have to do. You
know, you can do more exercise for sure.
I I I think that's that's clear.
Walking, it's just a even a little bit
of exercise is unbelievable in reducing
risk. But, you know, people are stuck in
cars and traffic. You ever go to the big
cities, man, I the traffic is killing
everybody. You know, books on tape. You
run home, kids are yelling, "Let's throw
something in the microwave. I'm not
going to go out in the backyard and chop
the head off a chicken and pluck them
and then cook them tonight." um you know
and the healthy foods are more expensive
than the cheap foods. So the cheap foods
are so it's really everything is like
stacked against us and trying to be and
trying to be healthy. But once I think
once the GKI information comes out
people will have a tool that they will
be able to use and there will be an app
associated with that so you can look
directly on your cell phone at any given
time and then you can be able to make
choices as to both prevention and
management uh whatever the situation uh
might be and that we're working as hard
as we can and we're doing it on a
shoestring budget if you can believe it.
Some of our people working, they're
learning how to program. They're
learning, they're learning all of the
skills needed to to build this thing.
And then we have to work with some of
the companies so that they can
massproduce these things so people can
have it. Yeah. So, so there's a lot of
Listen, there's going to be a monies to
be made. It's just that I don't know.
I'm not one of those. My job is to my
job is to see how many people I can keep
alive.
>> Yeah.
>> That's that's that's rewarded in in
itself only to prove that you knew what
you were talking about. That that's the
bottom line. You know, did you know when
you were talking this guy giving you a
load of or does it really work?
And and the science tells us it will
work when it done correctly. And once
that happens and you start to see
everybody who would be in these terrible
situations in a less terrible situation,
then you know you hit the you you
achieve the you
>> Yeah. Well, I know that a lot of people,
you know, when it comes to, you know,
getting later on in life and stuff like
that, people start to focus on legacy,
you know, and things that they, you
know, can leave to the planet. And I
think it's without a shadow of a doubt
that you've left a tremendous legacy
that's going to change the face of the
planet. So, I thank you for that. I
won't be around to see it. [laughter]
>> Well, maybe if more things like this
podcast can get out there, we can start.
>> I'll be proud of the planet at that
time. I'll be part of the planet. But
[laughter] but
>> I love it.
>> But either way, either way, it's going
to work because the science is so
strong. And don't forget, it's we're
standing on the shoulders of the giant
out of Warberg.
>> Yeah.
>> Who is Germany's number one biochemical
scientist. So, it's not like we just
cleared up a lot of the misinformation
and misunderstanding that he had. we've
just uh cleared it up and made it that
he was right, but he just didn't have
all the details that we now have. Right.
>> So, there's no reason now to to rocket
ship forward with this.
>> Well, the glutamine is a fuel. That's
really recent, right? I mean, you just
you just came out with that published.
>> Well, no, no, actually, actually, that's
not all the oncologists, well, academic
onc academic scientists in oncology know
glutamine is a major fuel, but they all
thought it was respired. Our new
discovery was that it's fermented. It's
that you can it's generating energy
without oxygen. That's the new thing.
That's a that's a mechanistic new
revelation. It's fermented. And we work
with the number one scientists on that
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation which is a fermentation
mechanism inside the organel that
generates energy through oxidative
phosphorilation. That's what Warberg did
not know about. Nor does the field of
science. So we everybody knew glutamine
was involved but they just didn't know
the mechanism by which it was involved.
So, so now we know what it's doing and
we know how to stop it and now you
should be doing that.
>> That's great. Okay. So, I have to ask,
how is your diet?
>> Well, you know, I try to skip as many
breakfasts and get as much exercise. I'm
very fortunate to have a a a palatial
gym that we now bill for our
undergraduates here at the universities.
You can't Your university is dictated
more about the size of your gym and your
athletic facilities than it is about the
size of your library, you know. So, oh,
four stories of just every kind of a
exercise machine and swimming and
everything, which is puts me in a good
position because I just walk out the
door and just over on the other side
there is this beautiful gym. Uh, so, but
I know so many folks in our society are
stretched and they don't have that that
capability. But there are other things
that you can do and a lot of it is
pointed out in our big protocol paper on
the glyopblasto things that people can
do just small things that can put them
on the right path to keeping themselves
alive longer with with less chronic
disease.
>> Where can we get a copy of that paper?
>> It's open access uh so which means that
anybody with a computer can download it.
It's it's the protocol treatment
protocol for glyobblasto by Dr. Thomas
Durai Dur AJ myself I'm the last author
on the paper but we have 20 more 20 or
so authors on this paper from all over
the world all corners of the earth are
on this paper but it's a very detailed
elaborate yes and what we're learning is
that I always said there's some level of
scientific literacy essential to knowing
what we're talking about but now with AI
all these terms and things like that you
can just throw them into the the Google
AI and they come right they explain
everything to you
>> so we can use AI to our advantage to
help us wade through what this guy is
saying in this paper. My lectures are
less technical, unless of course I'm
giving it to a professional technical
audience, at which time I can go to the
le the greatest depths that they need to
know. But the guy on the street, all he
wants to know is is how do I do this?
>> Right?
>> What should I eat?
>> Right? You know, and the answer is,
well, once the tool comes out, you can
do it now. You'd have to go on and buy a
Keto Mojo. Now the tariffs made the damn
Keto Mojo. You can't get them. So it's
hard to get. We can just prick your
finger. Maybe Precision Extra might have
one from Abbott Labs, but you can
measure your own Gat. We published a
paper already on that on the glucose
ketone index. You know, we did the
calculations for everybody, but you like
people like to just push a button and
have the number appear right in their
face. So, that's another convenience
that they've that they've worked on. So,
but the things are there. They're just a
little bit less convenient now. And
we're trying to bring the convenience to
everybody much easier.
>> Yeah. Well, I will find that art. I'll
find that publication and I'll make sure
I link to it in the description.
>> I can send it to you. I can send it to
you. And depressed pulse therapy. I can
send that to you. That' be great.
>> The concept. Yeah, I'll I'll send them
and I'll even send you our new paper uh
which is pretty heavy deep into the
science just for anybody that might be
interested in going to the depths of the
problem,
>> right?
>> You know, uh the new it's called the uh
the Warberg hypothesis and the emergence
of the mitochondrial metabolic theory of
cancer. uh which tells the field, you
know, where the mistakes were made and
the science supporting everything that
I'm talking about here.
>> I love that. I love it so much. Now, if
someone wants to get a hold of you,
what's the easiest way to get a hold of
you? And
>> well, they usually email me if if I
usually send them a kit of information.
I I give them a very detailed kit of
information and names of people who they
can because I can't treat anybody. I
can't tell anybody what to do, but I
give them knowledge and the only thing
we ask is that they make a donation to
one of the foundations because I give
them I give the information free. I
don't charge anything for this
information, you know. So, and then some
people do make nice donations and a lot
of people don't. Some people don't have
any money, but that's okay. Whatever
whatever helps them out is fine, you
know. The goal is how long how much
longer can I get I get emails back from
guys, you know, I give them this kit of
information. I don't know. I don't hear
from them. And then two years later or
something, they immediately I said, "Oh,
you're still alive." I said, "That's
good news. You're still alive." I said,
"You would have been dead."
>> I love that.
>> You know, it's always a surprise to hear
somebody that has stage four cancer
who's still alive years after they were
supposed to be dead.
>> Yeah. I love that's so great. Dr. Steve
Freed, I really appreciate your time.
And as soon as you come out with the
continuous ketone monitor, I want to be
one of the first people to try it. I
want to be on that thing.
We're all excited about that ourselves.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> All right, Chris. Listen, I'll let you
go. Thank you for the interview and all
the the best. And I'll send you those
papers.
>> Perfect. I appreciate your time. Thank
you so much.
>> Yeah. Thank you. Bye now.
>> [music]